foreign
men there are many different kinds of
mental illness it's hard to speak about
mentalness as one one problem the brain
is very complex
uh has many many different uh elements
to it obviously it's a seat of
Consciousness seat of sentience
cognition and so forth there are some
mental illnesses that have to do with
cognition some mental illnesses have to
do with mood some mental illnesses have
to do with various other aspects of the
brain
um
it's very important right at this top to
ensure that people understand that
mental illness more than perhaps even
any other illness
has an important situational
environmental psychosocial element uh to
it grief doesn't begin inside your brain
it usually begins outside and impinges
uh on you
but then in the case of depression uh
there is it almost becomes a
self-fulfilling cycle at least my
experience of it becomes a
self-fulfilling cycle and it all of a
sudden you lose Joy
um and in inability to get outside grief
even while respecting or understanding
the idea that there are psychosocial
environmental and other influences
genetic influences to mental illness
ultimately
um it is a district it's a dis in the
case of depression it's a dysregulation
of mood and there are neurons neuros
neuronal circuits neural hormonal
circuits uh in the brain that are
responsible for the maintenance of mood
for the capacity to
obtain joy and it's very important then
to understand that depression is not
just a cellular Illness but there is a
cellular component to it that cells are
involved cells in circuits of cells are
involved and in order to once we
understand that actually actually help
I think it demystifies and destigmatizes
uh depression as an illness and once you
demystify and destigmatize it because
you now located it in in the body you've
located it in cells while you haven't
denied the idea that it might come that
there may be situational modifiers or
situational events
um and therefore you then can think
about potentially
treating and solving depression using
not just behavioral therapy not just
talk therapy as they call it but also
using medicines also using other
modalities more recently as I described
in the book deep brain stimulation and
other kinds of modalities I think this
whole process of identifying this
depression as having a cellular
component to it is very important
because of the stigma attached to the
disease otherwise
um so you know no one tells you know
people say you you know why don't you
snap out of your depression but no one
says why don't you snap out of your
cancer
why don't you snap out of your diabetes
and that's because they think of one as
something that you've created yourself
you blame the victim whereas the they
think of the other as something that
your body is doing so one of my
challenges and one of my purposes in
writing about mental illness was to
really remind people that it has a
cellular basis and therefore it should
be treated in some ways very similar to
other diseases of the body like as I
said the many other diseases that I
describe in the book
[Music]
while many Studies have shown that you
know early diagnosis is helpful because
you can make early interventions
um those early interventions could as I
said include uh familial you know
interventions through the family it may
involve psychiatric talk therapy it may
involve a certainly can involve
medicines
um so I think it's extremely important
and I think it you know it's highly
under diagnosed
particularly under diagnosed in females
in the female population and I think
it's very important I'll give you one
example postpartum depression
highly under diagnosed very well known
as a clinical entity we're still
struggling to find out what its
pathophysiology is why you get
postpartum depression we think it has to
do something it has to do with hormonal
changes but it's very under diagnosed
and it can be extremely debilitating
I've seen many patients with very severe
postpartum depression almost suicidal
postpartum depression and I think it's a
very under diagnosed and stigmatized you
know people say God you you know you had
a child why aren't you happy
um well because you've also undergone an
enormous level of neuro hormonal
alterations and changes and I think it's
very important to recognize it
[Music]
I think the whole Arena of cancer
nutrition has been underexplored from a
scientific end you know we tell cancer
patients oh you know go and eat uh to
gain weight
uh we don't give them specific guidances
at five we are taking a completely
different approach to this so we are
thinking about nutrition as a drug
so just like you take any drug any
medicine we're thinking about nutrition
in a medical way asking the question
what particular nutrients do cancer
cells use for their metabolism what is
the cancer cells
metabolism look like you know almost I
would say almost 100 years ago there was
a lot of interest in cancer metabolism
Otto Warburg uh the famous scientists
published a series of important papers
which show that cancer cells have a
different metabolism compared to normal
cells but we've never been able to
exploit that difference in metabolism in
a therapeutic manner so at Faith we're
taking a very I would say reductive but
a very systematic method methodical
approach to figuring out what the
vulnerabilities of cancer cells are and
giving or creating diets that are based
on this uh scientific approach rather
than just going and saying you can go
and eat anything go eat you know
whatever you want to eat we're trying to
find a way in which we identify
particular vulnerabilities of particular
cancer cells and create particular diets
that will act in a medical way or a
therapeutic way for cancer patients
[Music]
almost certainly the diet will change
with the type of cancer so certain
genetic mutations or certain certain
types of cancer are highly dependent on
certain kinds of nutrients we've
published a lot of a lot of the on this
as a as really as a group
we've published for instance a an
important paper that shows the
relationship between insulin and
um and a particular pathway that allows
cancer cells to survive and become
resistant to chemotherapy
and targeted chemotherapy and we've
shown in animal models we've shown that
multiple cancers if you combine this
targeted therapy this medicine with an
insulin lowering diet all of a sudden
this resistance goes away so um so
that's one of the things that we're
putting into a clinical trial other
cancers depend on certain particular
micronutrients
such as Proline or serine and we are
creating diets that are specifically
depleted in those micronutrients so that
you can as they say in popular
terminology Starbucks cancer but we are
not using we are not starving the cancer
we are using very targeted precise forms
of nutritional therapy to um to deliver
it to cancer cells
[Music]
I mean I think one of the things is uh
that has come about quite clearly
um is uh like it or not I think there's
a very important role for mental health
for exercise and mental health
um and uh I was I was reminded of all of
this because I was sitting down during
covid and uh during the covet pandemic
not getting out of my chair and finally
I realized that you know I had to really
sort of start
um uh start exercising if not if nothing
else to reduce reduce the amount of
stress that I was building up
um the relationship between obesity and
cancer for instance is another access
that a lot of people have noticed
obesity is on the rise uh all across the
world especially in not especially but
also in India and I would say that you
know particular interest in uh again in
diet and exercise in preventing obesity
and thereby preventing cancer is
something that I'm very conscious about
[Music]
well generally speaking cancer-related
mortality at a bulk level real changes
come from prevention uh that's the base
of the pyramid
um so there's been a lot of speculation
as to what has changed but I think uh um
one of some of the things that have
changed obviously smoking rates have
dropped
um I think there is now finally a
conscious decision to lower obesity
rates uh by changing lifestyle behavior
and so forth
there is probably some role in cancer
tree of cancer treatment as well so in
some particular forms of cancer I'll
give you some examples breast cancer we
know that there's been a combination of
factors including cancer prevention
early cancer detection and screening and
uh and and treatment that has changed
cancer mortality in the case of breast
cancer but in most cancers overall it's
a prevention that really cancer
prevention that really
is responsible for the for the most part
for the for the decrease in mortality
cancer mortality
yeah in fact I'm going to release a a
newer version of improval Melodies with
updates um I was hoping to do it this
year I don't know what time I'll have
but sometime this year or the end of
this year there will be a newer edition
of The imperable Melodies
foreign
project
um it is uh I have to you know I can be
I'm extraordinarily proud of the work
that the folks at Emilia have done it's
like sending a rocket to the moon
um uh you know it's with that same sense
of Pride
um making a genetically modified T cells
and infusing these T cells with
astonishing uh data
um has just been has just been
incredible to watch the uh so
um we have to finish the whole study we
release the interim reports of the study
with results that are totally comparable
um with the European data and comparable
with the data obtained in the United
States these are very stringent criteria
so day nine three uh complete response
rates
um so um so it'll be to finish the study
um and then we are moving on to many
many more uh new uh cancers that we are
going to try to treat with T cells
generally genetically modified T cells
we are creating new processes to make
these T cells uh we have new uh targets
that we're looking at so immune is
expanding very rapidly towards looking
at more and more cancers more and more
targets finishing more and more clinical
trials and so forth
we've tried and we are continuing to try
dozens of ways of lowering the price
um there is a there's a floor to the
price because this is very complex
therapy so at a certain point of time
you know you can't lower price you know
you still have to make
virus you still have to be safe you
still have to be regulated you still
have to create a facility that's sterile
and so forth but we are trying hundreds
of ways our Engineers are working I
would say day in and day out to you know
look and examine with really with them
almost at a microscopic level every
mechanism to lower the price it's an
evolving process
foreign
I absolutely think that these therapies
can be made accessible I think they have
to be done intelligently they have to be
done with a lot of passion but I think
they can be accessible
[Music]